Load Balancer:

The load balancer is a piece of software or hardware that distributes incoming requests to the backend servers. 
There are three types of Elastic Load balancers currently offered by the AWS EC2 service. They are
1. Application Load Balancer
2. Network Load Balancer
3. Gateway Load Balancer

- The application load balancer AWS is used to distribute traffic across the target. The term "target" in this context refers to EC2 servers or Lambda.  

- Customers/clients will send requests to the application load balancer, which will then distribute/send the requests to the backend targets (EC2 or lambda). 
  The application load balancer is scalable natively. As a result, we don't need to be concerned about scaling the application load balancer.

- The Application Load Balancer distributes incoming HTTP and HTTPS traffic across multiple targets such as Amazon EC2 instances, microservices, and containers, based on request attributes. 
  When the load balancer receives a connection request, it evaluates the listener rules in priority order to determine which rule to apply, and if applicable, it selects a target from the target group for the rule action.

- The load balancer acts as the entry point into your system-->listener listens for incoming connections-->load balancer forwards requests to a target group-->target group consists of one or multiple targets-->target might be an EC2 instance, container, or internal service.

1. Application Load Balancer:
   It operates at Application Layer of OSI Model(Layer 7) and designed to route HTTP and HTTPS traffic.
   It is best suited for applications and can perform content-based routing, making decisions based on the content of the request (URL, host, headers) 
   and supports features like path-based routing, host-based routing, and request-based routing.

2. Network Load Balancer:
   It operates at Transport Layer(Layer 4).
   Designed to route TCP/UDP traffic for low-latency, high-throughput applications that require extreme performance and scalability. 
   NLB is suitable for non-HTTP(S) traffic, such as gaming, IoT, and UDP-based protocols.

3. Gateway Load Balancer:
   It operates at Network Layer(Layer 3).
   Designed for routing traffic to Virtual Private Gateways (VPGs) in AWS. 
   It is used to load balance traffic to VPNs, Direct Connect gateways, or Transit Gateways.

